The main complaint that I have about the writing is most probably cultural. I
dare say this because I have experience with coauthors from different cultures,
in particular mathematicians vs. computer scientists. It seems to me that there
is a cultivated writing style among mathematicians which tends to “hide things
from the reader” as if it would be too simple to just explicitly say everything.
I am not fond of this style. Related to it, I think, is that the paper is not
self-contained, and skips almost all preliminaries (both regarding string
diagrams and other things). To ideally follow everything, one would need to read
at least also [6]. I did not do that, and I am not really an expert on most of
the things touched-upon in this paper, but I have worked (some time ago) on some
symmetric monodical categories, and on probability in a categorical context. I
am also familiar with some of the fast-growing body of work on string
diagrammatic results. Having said that, still I could actually follow almost all
arguments in the proofs, which adds to my being in favour of accepting the
paper. But to my taste, it would be better and easily doable to reintroduce
basic concepts here, spell all out, and have a self-contained paper. Perhaps the
authors can consider such a suggestion, though at the end I leave it up to their
taste and decision.

E: I think there's something to be said for introducing more of the
preliminaries. But this is a more substantial change, so I'm leaving it here for now.

For people not familiar with certain notions, e.g. the mentioned law (3), or the
comultiplication itself, it is good to give these notions / laws names when they
are defined, and not refer to them by names (never mentioned in the definition)
later.

E: This might be a reasonable point, maybe go through the paper and see if we
use any words that are worth explaining here.

I have the feeling that many of your examples are/build on Kleisli categories,
but you do not mention / explore that. You only mention it in the last example…
where I do not see particular relevance as well.

E: Worth adding a comment on maybe - maybe give as a class of examples, you have
a theorem on this in your big reference paper, I think?


also the examples could be more detailed (e.g. Ex. 2.3 could explicitly define
composition and the symmetric monodical structure)

E: I tried doing this and found it a bit clunky (since example 2.3 is already
pretty heavy), but worth thinking about.


It would only take couple of sentences on p.4 to introduce / explain string
diagrams. * p.4, typo: Y should be X in the second projection map.

E: Not sure if this makes ense?


E: I have not considered the rest of the comments yet:

one should spell out \hat\sigma better

“the invariance assumption” — again, naming only pops in here.. it would help to
refer to the assumption (2.), one could also decorate the equalities with the
reasons why they hold.

p.19 “Then we claim that” — this equality also needs a label and reference, and
can be referred to in the third equality at the end of the proof (p.20)


I am not sure I can appreciate the example of the Kleisli category for the
Vietoris monad on Top … but if others do, that’s OK for me. To my taste, some
motivation would be welcome. I do admit that Corollary 6.5. is amazing 😃.


p.22 (here the writing is not as beautiful somehow, maybe also because of the
“concrete nature of the things”) — the first displayed equivalence could be
labelled and referred to alter — so that it does not repeat twice.

I would prefer a discussion (even if it includes a discussion of an open
problem) to ending with an open problem.
